docs: add specialized op-node topology notice (#20192)
ethereum-optimism/optimism: docs/public-docs/notices/specialized-node-topology.mdx

Reviewer: I don't see any notices how this is required for op and uni operators.

Reviewer 2: included a warning box towards the top

## Action required

### Node operators

Plan a migration from a homogeneous fleet of derivation-enabled `op-node` instances to a specialized topology:

1.  Designate one or more `op-node` instances as **source** nodes. These continue to run with full L1 derivation and should be sized and monitored accordingly, including redundancy for failover.
2.  Provision the remaining `op-node` instances as **light nodes** by setting `--l2.follow.source=<source op-node RPC endpoint>` (env: `OP_NODE_L2_FOLLOW_SOURCE`). Ensure light nodes can reach the source endpoint over a reliable, low-latency network path.
3.  Validate that light nodes track the safe chain correctly against the source before shifting production traffic.
4.  Update dashboards and alerting so the source tier's health is treated as a dependency of the light-node tier.

#### Highly available topology with consensus-aware proxyd

For production deployments, we recommend placing the derivation tier behind a [consensus-aware `proxyd`](/chain-operators/tools/proxyd#consensus-awareness) and exposing light nodes to users through a separate RPC-serving tier:

> *   **Deriver tier** — a small, redundant set of derivation-enabled `op-node` instances (the sources). These sit behind a `proxyd` configured with consensus awareness, which aggregates the sources into a single highly available endpoint and hides individual failures or reorgs from downstream consumers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **Deriver tier** — a small, redundant set of derivation-enabled `op-node` instances (the sources). These sit behind a `proxyd` configured with routing strategy: `consensus_aware_consensus_layer`, which aggregates the mutiple op-node sources into a single highly available endpoint and hides individual failures or reorgs from downstream consumers. 
```

Reviewer: I would also recommend adding an example config

```
[server]
enable_request_log = false
log_level = "info"
max_body_size_bytes = 10485760
rpc_host = "0.0.0.0"
rpc_port = 8080
max_upstream_batch_size = 100

[metrics]
enabled = true
host = "0.0.0.0"
port = 7300

[batch]
max_size = 1000

[backend]
max_retries = 0
out_of_service_seconds = 0
response_timeout_seconds = 5

[backends]
[backends.op-node-0]
rpc_url = "https://op-node-0/"
[backends.op-node-1]
rpc_url = "https://op-node-1"
[backends.op-node-2]
rpc_url = "https://op-node-2"

[backend_groups]
[backend_groups.replica]
backends = ["op-node-0", "op-node-1", "op-node-2"]
routing_strategy = "consensus_aware_consensus_layer"
consensus_poller_interval = "1s"
consensus_ban_period = "5m"
consensus_max_update_threshold = "30s"
consensus_max_block_lag = 8
consensus_min_peer_count = 3

## consensus_cl_sync_threshold sets the maximum tolerated L1 block lag before a CL backend
consensus_cl_sync_threshold = 10
## consensus_cl_head_max_age sets the maximum age of the L1 head timestamp before a CL backend is considered stale.
consensus_cl_head_l1_max_age = "5m"
## consensus_cl_output_root_ban_threshold sets the number of consecutive per-cycle optimism_outputAtBlock timeouts before a CL backend is banned.
consensus_cl_output_root_ban_threshold = 3

[rpc_method_mappings]
### Allow optimism_syncStatus rpc to the replicas
optimism_syncStatus = "replica"

[rate_limit]
error_message = "Your IP has exceeded its requests per second capacity."
rate_per_second = 500
```
